---
layout: post
title:  "Stumbling out of the Gate"
date:   2016-02-14 21:10:26
categories: jekyll update
---
#And They're Off!

	So Today was a rough start to my adventure abroad. I spent the last week or so in Boston hanging out with my college friends before I took off for five months. The week was relatively uneventful, but I did manage to take care of a few things that I needed to. Turns out I might be getting another shot with Varsity in the summer/fall this season. Apparently Neil wanted me to work in with the team again this semester, but that would be fairly hard considering I'll be all the wa across the Atlantic. Had a meeting with him while I was in town, seems like it will come down to how much work I put into soccer while I'm in Germany and when I get back. I reached out to SC Borea Dresden--an amateur team in the German 7th or 8th tier--and it seems like they would be open to having me come and play with them. I just hope it's challenging enough of competition. More to come with that here soon. 

	Anyway, back to my story. Today was just a brutal day of travel. The plan was to take an Amtrak train out of Back Bay to Penn Station, where I would probably take the LIRR to JFK airport to get on the group flight with a few of the other students in our study abroad program. The train left Boston at 6:45 am, and was supposed to arrive in New York around 11 am, with my flight to Frankfurt at 3:55 pm. Plenty of cushion in case anything happens, right? Of course not. Ended up stopping a few times on the train on the way to New York. Scary moment was when I fell asleep and woke up at 12:15 pm thinking I had missed my stop by an hour. Turns out we were at New Rochel, the stop just before Penn Station. I wake up to the conductors saying "25 minutes to Penn Station!" as they walked through the cars. 'A little later than I had hoped, but I still should have a comfortable time getting to my flight,' I thought to myself. Then, as we approach the tunnel into Penn Station, we stop to fix another mechanical issue with the engine. "Fifteen to twenty minutes and we'll be rolling again," they say. 'Getting a little tight here, but still doable,' I try to convince myself. Well, turns out whatever they had been doing to try and fix the engine just ended up hurting other parts of it, and we were worse off than before. The clock is creeping upwards from 1 pm, and I'm starting to get a little worried. I'm making calls to airports and airlines to make sure I can still make the flight, and to make sure we wouldn't lose a metric shitload of money in case I do miss my international flight. Keep in mind, I still had about a 40 minute trip to get from Penn Station to JFK, whether via Uber or the LIRR. It's now the bottom of the hour, and the conductors announce that they were getting another engine to attach to the front of the train and pull it in to Penn Station that way. "Should be here in five minutes, should be moving in fifteen," says the conductor, his predictions displaying the accuracy of a third-string weatherman. We don't start moving until it's already 2:30 pm, and at this point all hope of making it to the airport before the hour-before check-in deadline is gone. Finally, we get into the station at 2:45, and I call Lufthansa to let them know that I won't be able to make it to my flight on time, and try to reschedule for a later flight the same day. However, since the flight was booked through a travel agency, they said they wouldn't be able to complete the request over the phone, but that the ticket agents at the airport would be able to take care of me. So, I jump in an Uber and make my way to the airport, a little frustrated, but expecting to jump on a 5:30 pm flight to Munich while lugging around a duffle bag and two suitcases, one of which whose handle was jammed shut on the train. At least I wasn't a part of the family that had a 3:00 pm cruise to the Bahamas to catch.

	I arrive at JFK at 3:30 pm, 35 minutes past the check-in deadline. No biggie, I'll just go to the ticket counter and rebook my flight and I'll be on my way. "We're sorry, but since the flight is through a travel agency, you'll have to have them take care of it from their end," the next bombshell of what seemed to be far too many to happen to me this day, this time dropped by Lizzette, the lady helping me at the ticket counter. I figured this time it would be as simple as calling the agency and having them help me out. Except for one thing, it's a Sunday--and most businesses tend to not operate on days like today. After frantically calling any number I could find from scouring my emails that I haven't maintained since break, I was able to find the emergency contact number and got ahold of a woman named Pam, except by this time it had hit 4:30, meaning the 5:30 flight was no longer an option, and my last chance for the night was to get on the 10:20 pm flight to Frankfurt. Pam tells me she needs to talk to a supervisor to get some sort of authorization to waive the 72-hour purchase-in-advance restriction, whom I eventually find and ask for help. Her response was that essentially she couldn't do much to help, and that it was on the travel agency to change the flight. This back and forth of 'tell them I said this' went on for over an hour, which required me to lug all three bags around with me since I hadn't been able to check in yet. Eventually dad gets on the phone with Lizzette, and tries to work something out, but I'm told to wait again, and with the clock reading 6:00, I'm starting to wonder where I'm going to spend the night. Then Lizzette points to me, a beacon of hope summmoning me to the counter. She says she might have a lead after talking to one of the managers on duty. This is the first good news I've heard all day. I wait at the counter as she types in my information on a potential wait-list reservation. The possibility of being denied off the wait-list worried me a bit, but it was better than anything I had going for me previously. Just as all sense of perceived normalcy had returned to my travels, Lizzette asks in bewilderment, "Who cancelled my reservations???" I'm not quite sure which four-letter word came to my mind first, but it seemed like another hitch in my plans that could possibly eliminate all hope and patience I had left. The minutes following her exasperated hunting-and-pecking felt like, well, not that long considering what I had already been through that day. She begins to explain my itinerary for the evening, and how the only thing left between me and some TSA patdowns was a $300 rebooking fee, courtesy of Amtrak's incompetence. Lizzette prints out my tickets, and escorts me to the luggage counter. I deposit my luggage, and hand my passport to the lady at the luggage counter. Lizzette tells her that my tickets were standby tickets, but that she should go ahead and accept me off the waitlist. Momentum was finally on my side now, and I was finally beginning to get excited about Europe. "How long will you be there for?" luggage lady asks, and I tell her that I'd be there to study for five months. "Your papers?" she says, and my heart drops. 'Surely I didn't forget to sign up for a visa of all things' I tell myself, double-checking our pre-departure tabs to reassure myself that I hadn't forgetten this most crucial of steps. "Everyone else came with papers in your group," she presses. I hand her my BUID card hopefully to satisfy the requirements of proof that I was a student. "You must be filling out the papers when you arrive in Dresden then?" she relents as I read the line on the pre-departure hub stating explicitly that I did not need a visa, only a valid passport to get to Germany. "Yeah, sure," I say, and take my tickets and passport, high on a combination of no sleep the night before, no food all day, and the excitement that I would finally get out of the Lufthansa lobby. Before I go, I made sure to thank Lizzette for all her help throughout the afternoon, and with that I was on to security. 

	Once I was through security, I had no issues getting to Dresden. Flying Lufthansa international was actually quite nice. The flight to Frankfurt was really nice, TVs in the seats, and I had an entire middle row of four to myself (plenty of empty seats throughout the flight). Free beer and champagne greeted me, and was a nice complement to the airplane dinner and movie selection on the flight. Watching Spectre on the way over made everything in Europe feel a lot more sophisticated for the first couple of hours here. I finally made it to the dorms around 3:30 pm local time, ending a brutal 27-hour travel day for me. 
