---
layout: post
title:  "Hallo from the Other Side"
date:   2016-02-16 23:55:11
categories: jekyll update
---
#The Stumbling Continues...

Once I arrived in Dresden, I had a couple of hours to get my room situation before the first group event. I missed the initial orientation tour, so I was a little confused about a few things around town that others learned from the tour. Once I met with the group, I got situated with a group of about four or five guys that I knew from around engineering back at BU, and with whom I'll probably be spending a good amount of the next five months or so with. It was pretty nice to mesh with them pretty early on, especially compared to how college started with me knowing nobody. The first thing we did with the group was to walk around a couple of the shopping centers that are close to campus, and we were able to purchase some things we needed for our rooms, as well as dinner from wherever we wanted. Trying to buy things was interesting, as it consisted of the cashier saying a whole lot of German and me responding with either "Danke," or, "I'm sorry, I only speak English." After those experiences, I definitely wish I had been more proactive with reading up on my German over the winter break, but now I'm definitely more motivated to learn the language while I'm here (and hopefully continue after I leave). German seems much more necessary this time compared to when I came here in high school for only a few days. 

After we returned from dinner and shopping, Dave, one of the RAs here (also native German), posted in the Facebook group inviting us over at 9 pm to the student-run 'Gutzkowclub' for a drink, which happens to be no more than fifty steps from my dorm room. I figured it would be a pretty lowkey way to get to know everyone in the program, and a good introduction into what kind of offerings the local watering hole had in store. I was the first from our group to step up to the bar, trying to show to everyone (and I guess somewhat to myself) that I wasn't shy when it came to learning the customs and way of life here. After quite the awkward exchange at the bar, stemming from my own ignorance of both the German language and how a bar works in general, I walked back to my seat with a mug of the local beer, Feldschloschen. 1.50 Euro for half a liter of something that didn't resemble piss-water is a steal, and I already began to wonder how I'd be able to return to 'The Beast,' as Shawn refers to it, when we get back to the States. As people began to trickle in and I was enjoying my first drink, the Bartender grabs a microphone from somewhere and welcomes us Americans to Germany. He passes around a three-liter glass of Feldschloschen, explaining that each American should take a drink and then pass it on, and the second-to-last person to finish it has to buy the next one, an incentive which has a lot of potential. As I take my swig and pass it on, Juliana (<3), an RA doing her Master's in Germany but who was from Chicago and went to Vandy for undergrad, comes around with a plate of cough syrup-flavored Schnapps shots for everyone to share. I began to realize that this probably wouldn't be a simple one-drink-and-home type of night that I was expecting. The three-liter makes its way back to me, and I belched a sigh of relief as I was the third-to-last person to drink from it. Another round of communal chugging and shots goes by, and then Oli (native RA) and his friend ask for challengers for a game of BP. Rafal and I step up, and we fill our pyramid with two Carlsberg beers as Oli's friend explains the German house rules of the game to us:
* Bouncing doesn't count for two cups, and they can still be swatted after the bounce
* Islands don't do anything for you
* Re-racks occur automatically with six and three cups left, creating smaller pyramids. Essentially renders islands obsolete, and also removes Gentleman's rule and re-rack/rebuttle nuances
* No heating up/on fire
* Elbow line applies to the farthest cup you have, requiring you to shoot farther away as you lose cups

We accepted their commie rules and said we'd beat them anyway, and I proceeded to blow everyone's minds with the unorthodox underhand release, eventually sinking five cups in total for the game. Rafal and I, however, ended up losing after having a one to five advantage over the home team, who took advantage of their ability to physically knock two or three cups off the table (lame way to win in my opinion). We took the loss graciously, and figured we'd let them have the win after winning two World Wars and however many Olympics there have been. We finally decided to end the night and walk back to our dorms around midnight, which probably seems early, but felt a lot later given the day I had had leading up to that night and that we had to be up in nine hours. I crawled into bed, huddling under the underwhelmingly small throw blanket I had purchased that day and the Lufthansa blanket I received on my flight over, and layed my head down on the neck pillow I brought with me and the Lufthansa pillow from previously stated flight to Frankfurt. 

Today was a fairly productive day. I battled my first European hangover as we signed paperwork for a few hours. They told us it was for bank accounts and housing rental agreements, but I could've signed away the rights to my first-born from as far as I could gather from the legalese German in front of me. We ate lunch at the Mensa, a cafeteria at TU Dresden, which ended up being surprisingly cheap. After more paperwork, I returned to my dorm around 3:15 pm, and promptly took a two hour nap before I woke up to get ready for dinner. We had a BU-sponsored dinner at a place called 'Campus' somewhat near our dorms, meaning a free German buffet with our choice of drinks (excluding alcoholic drinks, as BU isn't a huge fan of sponsoring that kind of stuff apparently). I ended up eating sauerkraut, rice and coquettes, and apple streudel for dinner, with a large cup of coffee to drink, and some hot chocolate following dinner. As kickoff approached for this week's Champions League games (have to get used to them starting at 8:45 pm), we decided to take off and head to Gutzkowclub, where they were projecting the game. We watched the game, and figured we needed sleep for an even earlier morning tomorrow, so we headed back to our rooms once the game ended. 

The next few days will consist of more paperwork and tours, and I believe some of the RAs mentioned they'd take us clubbing on Thursday night. Class doesn't start until monday, so there is definitely a summer camp-y feel to things right now, but I'd expect that to change a bit once we start to have more responsibilities. The guys that I've been hanging out with have talked a lot about travelling to different places, and I believe we'll be taking a few trips as an entire group to cities like Prague, Leipzig, and Berlin, so I'm excited about getting to experience Europe while I'm here. Hopefully our course schedule isn't too demanding during the week so we can take advantage of our time here. Dave also mentioned today that buses are probably our best travel option, over trains, since they are a lot cheaper and run to a lot of cities around us. As far as soccer goes, need to get some touches in, workout a bit, and hopefully find a team to play with while I'm here. I've been in contact with SC Borea Dresden, but it's a bit of a hike to their fields, so I'm not sure about that. Also, turns out being a Bayern fan is not something I really want to demonstrate openly in Dresden. A lot of people outside of Bavaria really dislike them, so I don't think I'll be wearing around that Schweinsteiger jersey I brought with me. I'll have to pick up following Dynamo Dresden and maybe Hertha Berlin, who is the closest first division team to us. I'll try and update this blog as often as possible, but we'll see how that goes. Probably will only post about notable things that happen rather than sticking to a day-to-day blog.